oh hi I didn't see you
there we're boxing today that's my
cardio does cardio I got a question for
you guys does cardio interfere with
strength growing up in the fitness
industry I was taught by my mentors that
it is very bad for your strength
development things have changed uh and
nowadays people understand the benefits
of cardio and your overall health and
actually it is very beneficial for being
healthy but that doesn't answer the
question does it interfere with your
strength development well kind
of now the scientists are now telling us
that the interference
effect which has been discussed for many
years uh doesn't actually exist and
cardio doesn't interfere with your
ability to develop strength but I think
there's a lot of nuance to that topic
that a lot of people are neglecting
something that I stand by wholeheartedly
the more things you Tred to get good at
the Hard it is to get good at one does
that make sense so I talk about this
with periodization I talk about the man
who chases two rabbits doesn't eat uh so
what does that mean what are the rabbits
the rabbits are the different physical
qualities so you've got endurance
hypertrophy so building muscle you got
strength you got power the best athletes
in the world the best scientists and uh
coaches in the world they know that you
can't do all of this at once um so what
they do with periodization is they train
one phase at a time so I've spoken a lot
about periodization when I say this is
my fstep model which is another YouTube
video if you want to learn about
periodization click this is the best
periodization video or summary that
exists on the internet uh learn to move
that's what you first do when you come
in so every time you lift weights
there's only certain things that you can
do learn to move then build work
capacity is the next phase where we
start increasing the volume then uh
build muscle so we start building muscle
then then turn that big muscle into
strong muscle and then Peak for a
competition so that's uh a standard
model of long-term or periodization you
can't do all of that at once look at
crossfitters they do all of that at once
and they're great at being generally
decent at everything but they're not the
master of any single quality so
therefore can you do cardio and get
strong at the same time the answer is
yes but this is how I would do it if my
goal was to be off season like right now
this is what I do I do cardio and I do
weights and I'm not trying to reach my
peak in strength I'm working towards
longevity which is to be generally
strong generally in great shape Health
above everything but actually if I was
to compete in a powerlifting competition
I would probably phase my cardio
training out so I would eventually I'd
probably have my cardio training which
is my boxing that's my cardio training
I'll get to that in a moment take that
out as I get closer to competition but
I'd probably have it you know further
away from competition and what's that
going to do it's going to improve my
health so there's more myths about
cardio actually increasing your ability
to handle more volume in your training
actually apparently that's a myth now
which is fine by me I don't really care
um but what it does is it makes you
healthy um and what's the best style of
cardio for you for me it's not jogging I
hate jogging no offense if you like
jogging uh and that's what I try and
teach everybody do the style of cardio
that you enjoy if you don't enjoy it
you're probably not going to put the
effort in to actually get good at it so
this is something instead of doing jogs
or steady state cardio I like to play a
skill and that skill is boxing which I
think that every man uh should know how
to at least defend themselves uh I'm a
father of two girls so that's why I'm 42
years old so that's why it's something
that I just want to have in the
background not so I can go beat people
up but better have it and not need it
than need it and not have it Adam say
hello hello everybody say hello to my
YouTubes how we going guys yeah we're
going to box on video today now years
and years ago I took up Brazilian
jiu-jitsu because you know I watched the
early days of UFC and ho Gracie was the
winner Brazilian Jitsu is the best
martial arts style so I thought that's
you know the best martial arts style for
self-defense and one day I was walking
down the street in Sydney and I had a
blue belt in Brazilian jiu-jitsu so I
thought I was a tough guy and I was
walking down the street and three guys
were walking up and bit of an
altercation they were staring at me I
was staring at them we did the whole
what are you looking at thing and I
thought I'm a tough guy I got a
Brazilian jiu-jitsu Blue Bell uh so I
engaged with this one guy he started it
they started it but I didn't back down
cuz I was Brazilian Jitsu right so I've
grabbed the guy and as I've grabbed him
two of his
M I didn't feel it um if anyone's ever
been beaten up before you know the
adrenaline I didn't feel it I heard it I
was just I'm going it was the most
frustrating feeling that I ever had um
anyway L lucky for me I didn't beat them
up but I didn't get beaten up too badly
um I ended up not getting knocked out or
anything like that
anyway that was like Saturday night
whatever it was
Monday I came to adamine I said you know
what Brazilian did to as good as it is
um street fights which is not what I
want to do I like self-defense I like to
know that I can look after myself if I
need to but in the street you don't come
up against tough guys actually like I
would not come into a fight with you
because you wouldn't want to fight me
because you know how to fight me and
that's not the people that fight the
people that do fight in the street are
usually cowards and Bullies try
something and how do they fight in packs
right so the lesson that I learned was
don't go to the ground you don't want to
go to the ground if you're in the street
because typically you're not fighting
someone who knows how to fight if you're
fighting someone that knows how to fight
he'll probably knock you out in real
quick time quick time right they know
what they're doing with with a leg kick
or a body shot or something that's very
easy for him to be able to execute
anyway so I came to him and I learned
how to fight now let me ask you my dear
friend adamine yes of maybe 20 years 20
years over that what do you think is the
best martial arts for those at home if
you want to learn how to defend
yourself um in the street not to go
start fight of course just to protect
what are your thoughts on self-defense
I'm martial arts look personally um the
grappling is a good thing to have
because for grappling side of things if
you do get on the ground you know what
to do if you're standing on the feet
striking is the way to go and out of all
the martial arts preferably I'd go down
the kickboxing rout use all the tools
you got your hands your legs elbows
knees that's a whole One-Stop shop with
grappling as well you one package now
down the road of MMA whatever comes you
can deal with it so no more just ho
graci with just one St I put a little
bit of everything if you got time to
sort of study all these Arts that would
be the best way to go about it depending
on what the situation is going to bring
yeah so yeah if you can do more than one
be good but if you had to pick one over
all personally cuz I'm a kickboxer I'd
go the kickbox that's what I'm doing cuz
I only have I do one I'll tell you why
cuz I don't have time to do all the
different ones of course One on One Stop
Shop the closest thing to everything
would be kickboxing kickboxing elbows
knees kicks and
punches so there you go so if you want
to learn a good self-defense that you
can use to hold your own kickx stay on
your feet the kickbox firstly firstly
don't get in the fight yeah talk your
way out of it if you can't talk your way
out of it the best way to talk your way
out of it and if sort of um doesn't
happen and I'd say I'd say the next
thing is to realize if you are in a
street fight you probably only going to
get into a fight with someone who's
probably got their mates with them
mostly so you got to avoid it all
together because you don't want to fight
against more than one person no that's
not good I don't care how good you areff
yeah it doesn't matter how good you are
more than one it's going to be big
trouble for you soid avoid at all cost
it's cheaper as well number one avoid it
number two stay on your feet stay on
your feet put your back against the wall
if there's more than one to protect
yourself yeah so there's no one behind
you there whatever you sees in front of
you you can deal with it and just hope
for the best if there more than one or
two and that's it and now if you
absolutely have to let's do some some
good
combos basic drills some basic drills
and what to do and how to go about it
and how to set up a combination let's do
it all right so warming up first so we
won't do the combos yet yeah we're just
warming up pop the
shots
good
back one
two two you can try but I won't stop
st
St
stop you stop stop I can't be St now
can't stop I can't be now can't stop I
can't be St now can't stop you can try
but I won't stop won't stop lions tigers
bears am my king of the jungle I stand
for the pride beat on my chest that's
the Rhythm
inside you need to be fit to be good at
boxing
and I'll tell you now as well with me
right
now I don't want to say I'm in terrible
shape I definitely prioritize
weights but that's just me hitting
pads I know that when you Spar it's a
different level again because you're not
just punching something that's not
punching back that's right you're
punching and you're protecting yourself
as
well and you're you know you're probably
copping hits as well
so that's the next level and that's
something that I always think about in
between rounds is this in a real fight
in the ring it's like
that's a fair fight in the ring you got
a 3 minute
round and then you got 60
seconds and then you're on again and
then you got to do that however many
rounds there
are 5 or 12 5 12 depending on whatever
fight you're in
and so if you think that cardio doesn't
matter for
[Music]
boxing when the time goes
off so I'll tell you how I combine my
boxing with my weights
right now I'm only doing boxing two
times per week I'd like to do three but
I'll tell you now it does
interfere with the energy for my weight
training so when I do more boxing I can
feel it's harder to progress in
strength but the biggest reason for that
is because I am at a pretty high level
in my strength that I'm very sensitive
to where I spend my energy when I'm
working with a novice
and even intermediate they're not at
their strength potential so typically
I'd say keep training your cardio
whatever you like keep training it
alongside of your weights and then
whatever we prioritize if you prioritize
strength as you get as you start to
Plateau with your
strength then we can bring down your
cardio or your boxing or whatever you're
do playing a teams sport whatever if
that's a priority to you like if you're
going to a strength competition but some
people they're not
competing they're doing it as a
leisurely activity and if they've
plateaued I'll ask them those questions
what's your goal to be healthy to be fit
to be you know to look generally decent
then fine understand that the more
things you do at once the harder it is
to get good at one but does it matter to
you if you're a competitive athlete it
probably will matter to you if you're
not like me I'm not a competitive
athlete anymore I used to be a
powerlifter uh and when I was at my Peak
I would not do do any of this but right
now health is important so 2 days a week
of this and 4 days a week of weights and
on the days that I do weights I don't do
boxing some people have the energy to do
it but I don't um maybe it's cuz I'm 42
as well um but the way that I used to do
it is I'd try and do two in the same day
and I know that if I ever did weights in
the morning have lunch whatever come and
do boxing in the afternoon I'm
performing boxing at a lesser level like
it would interfere with my energy and I
would your energy yeah I was it was like
I couldn't hit hard I couldn't be sharp
and then vice versa if I tried to do
boxing first like now it's the morning
session if I tried to do boxing first
and then wait this afternoon I promise
you I wouldn't be lifting as heavy in
the afternoon so for me for me 4 days of
of weights and two days of boxing and I
would like to Step It Up 3 days because
personally I think 2 days a week is okay
for maintenance for me but if I really
want to improve I don't think it's
enough three is good three is plenty I
think three is good like I said with
weight is I think two days a week of
weights I don't think is very good
you're not going to get much it's okay
but you're not going to get a lot 3 days
of Weights is good 3 days of boxing so
results as well in three days yeah so I
think we go soon I'd like to transition
to 3 days of weight and 3 days of boxing
it's healthy that makes me you know be
able to hold my own I'm strong I look
good all areas are covered and I can
hold my own hey let's give some some
tips on a jab and a right hand then my
favorite two punches um and let's talk
about how to execute those well okay put
the timer back on so let's start with
the jab so the first tip that I gave was
keep your hands up you hear that a lot
in boxing and I'll say one of the
biggest things that I used to do I see
people doing is they go yeah because you
know that's how we walk we alternate so
when you go punch this is what happens
and that's what I used to do so I have
to keep my hand on my face so that when
I jab if I if I drop boom this is where
this is where big Tru so when I throw
the jab so I throw the jab over here
it's
covered back hand up here and then also
elbow in tuck it in come
in and back
one
more okay right
cross right hand same thing cover up and
back so watch this see that pivot foot
put out a cigarette when your back foot
hey that's it I don't SM but goody
turning three points so left hand up
left hand up and bring it
up one two three point turn
one left one right here we
go cover
two one
again good
luck nice
100 kilos body
weight 179 CM
so I'm not uh for a boxer at that body
weight I'd probably be up against
someone that's about 63 64 all the heavy
weights all the heavy weights That's
Heavy way that's well I'm heavier than
Deontay Wilder yep and what's he 65 or
something 65 66
then you got all the other all them are
65 66 most of these days so if I was to
step in the ring at this body weight I'd
be up against someone who's 6
in uh taller than me Joshua it's not
just a height it's a
reach yeah Best Bet could be Mike Tyson
with your height Mike Tyson with my
height That's Mike Tyson's height so
there is hope for heavy weight of course
you got the the T of fues you've got the
the usix now you know what's funny cuz
usk does look like small cuz he's up
against Tyson Fury who's 69 but who 663
yes so he's not that tall he's he's tall
yeah but Tyson makes everyone look short
Fury very 66 68 69 even yeah it's the
tallest boxer in the game yeah maximum
I've seen 66 but which is hard to beat
yeah if you're at my height so follows
to step in the ring so this is what I'm
talking about so my body weight actually
lugging this body weight around is hard
work of course for the cardio system so
my heart's pumping extra so if I wanted
to step in the ring I'd probably be
better off dropping maybe 15 kilos easy
easy 15 K and that's still pretty big
that's 85 kilos cruiserweight
cruiserweight that's still pretty
big so I'd still be fighting up against
someone taller than me probably if I was
85 kilos for sure for sure I'd be up
against someone who's 61 62 Dam
day that's why your Tyson had the
strategy for tall people so staying
close move that head just keep moving a
lot of people try and emulate the Mike
Tyson technique yeah but uh yeah he he
very good at it he was had a very good
trainer mik Tyson was very good at the
Tyson technique believe it or not three
two I got to try and keep my hands up so
you'll probably spot it sometimes I I
drop my hand I'm trying not
to
good good
last
one in
in keep him off keep them off
here we
go so that's a our session with Adam and
Dean well done two times per week easy
Tuesday Thursday splits up my wiek
nicely
and really good for my fitness if you
want to step in the ring don't train as
little as that two days a week is not
good enough if I was if I was to step in
the ring how many days would you make me
train six days there you go uh and I
would do that because if I was to step
in the ring I wouldn't want to lose and
I know that I'd want to give everything
I could so 6 days a week I would train
to step in the ring at my height I want
to lose 15 kilos minimum minimum so May
20 kilos yeah imagine me at 880 kilos
that's the thing so
impr your power is there but your weight
is less that would improve my fitness a
lot lot less body weight to carry around
right correct 6 days a week and then now
I'm the strength coach so I'll tell you
what I would probably recommend I'd
bring it down to two days of strength 6
days of
training and boxing so as you get closer
to competition you're being more
specific to be a better boxer you don't
lift more weights you box more exactly
so I'd do six days with Uncle Adam and
then I'd do two days of excess
weightlifting how strong can you get
with two days not very so my weight
training would be about maintaining
strength maintaining joint health uh but
then the most Focus would be on
specificity which is boxing every day uh
but anyway uh hope you enjoyed that
session it's definitely off topic for me
I am not claiming to be a professional
boxer at all but I love doing that as my
form of cardio uh and it's good to have
Legends like this guy uh world champion
kickboxer he's been around for a long
long long time Adam do you mind if I
tell him how old you are about he's 50
years old man look at that like you know
when we talk about um longevity in sport
like this guy moves well look how fit
the guy is uh you got to train you know
it's like when we do the old uh High
School reunions and see our old buddies
anyone in his grade you're probably not
going to see anything like that uh so
he's a picture of Health someone that I
look up to greatly as fit as a fiddle I
used to think I want to be big and
jacked you know but now it's like as I'm
42 years old I look at that and I'm like
I want to look like that when I'm older
as long as I can move like that yeah of
course I don't want to just look like
that for no
reason love you pleas good work thank
you everyone out good on your best